Course repository of the JvS statistics seminar
================

## Description

The Statistics Seminar of the Julius-von-Sachs-Institute is an open,
informal meeting for anyone interested in improving their statistical
literacy and their R skill set. It is mainly directed at the PhD
students working at the institute, but anyone else (BSc and MSc
students, Postdocs & PIs, people from other institutes etc.) are
welcome. Currently, we are dealing with rather basal topics which are
not related to specific biological questions, so if you’re from a
different field you may benefit nonetheless.

The Seminar takes place monthly, normally on the last Wednesday at 17:00
(changes will be announced here).

**As there is mostly an applied section in the classes and Eduroam is
always a drag, it will help tremendously if you bring your own laptop
and [install an up-to-date R-version and
RStudio](https://rstudio-education.github.io/hopr/starting.html) (and
ideally the `tidyverse` package) *before* you come to class\!**

This repository is meant for the storage and exchange of course
materials, presentations, useful resources for self-learning etc. and
will be expanded continuously (feel free to contribute).

## Next meeting

**Date: Jan. 29, 2020 17:00** - *R-squared and all that: Explained
variance in linear models*

Location: [Kursraum, Chair of Botany II,
Julius-von-Sachs-Platz 3](https://wueaddress.uni-wuerzburg.de/search/map/99992113)

## Future dates (preliminary)

**Date: Feb. 26, 2020 17:00**

**Date: Mar., 25, 2020 17:00**

## Course Wiki

A [Wiki page](https://github.com/r-link/Julius_von_Stats/wiki) for the
course is under construction. Besides a collection of links to [useful
resources](https://github.com/r-link/Julius_von_Stats/wiki/Useful-resources),
it is planned to use this platform to address a couple of frequently
asked questions.

## Past sessions

### Dec. 18, 2019

For this meeting, we have prepared a special christmas session. We will
start with a short introduction into `ggplot2` for those of you who
haven’t had the chance to work with R’s greatest visualisation package.

Then we will show you how to use simple branching models to simulate our
own trees, and plot them with `ggplot()`. We will then introduce you to
our (soon?) world-famous [**CHRISTMAS TREE
CHALLENGE**](https://github.com/r-link/christmas_tree_challenge/):

  - use our scripts with settings that result in simulated trees that
    look like conifers,
  - use all available `ggplot2` magic to plot them as realistically as
    possible,
  - add as much graphical sugar as possible in order to plot **the
    perfect Christmas tree**\!

As an example, here’s a tree with 10 iterations with very simple
settings: ![Tree with 10 iterations with very simple
settings](figures/tree1.png)

Here’s a bit more sophisticated parameterization (tree based on 25
iterations): ![Tree based on 25 iterations with a bit more realistic
settings](figures/tree2.png)

…and here’s what we all secretly want: a home grown digital Christmas
tree: ![Conifer model with 100 iterations](figures/animation.gif)

If you want to take part in the challenge, bring your own laptop,
please. Also bring everything you would want to have around in order to
have a happy coding time (snacks, drinks, whatever).

We will provide cookies, sweets and other fancy stuff, so rest assured
it will be a fun evening\!

The course materials for the `ggplot2` input session are
[here](https://github.com/r-link/Julius_von_Stats/tree/master/materials/2019-12-18%20R%20ggplot2%20intro).

### Nov. 27, 2019 - Linear model basics

The course materials for the Base R session are
[here](https://github.com/r-link/Julius_von_Stats/tree/master/materials/2019-11-27%20linear%20models).

### Oct. 30, 2019 - Introduction to the tidyverse

The slides and exercise sheets of the `tidyverse` class are now
available
[here](https://github.com/r-link/Julius_von_Stats/tree/master/materials/2019-10-30%20R%20tidyverse).

### August 29, 2019 - Base R exercises

The course materials for the Base R session are
[here](https://github.com/r-link/Julius_von_Stats/tree/master/materials/2019-08-28%20-%20base%20R%20exercises).

### Jul. 31, 2019 - Tidy and reproducible spreadsheets

The slides for the presentation about tidy and reproducible spreadsheets
can be accessed
[here](https://github.com/r-link/Julius_von_Stats/blob/master/materials/2019-07-31%20-%20tidy%20and%20reproducible%20spreadsheets/Tidy%20and%20reproducible%20spreadsheets%20\(presentation\).pdf).
